README.md, before:

# Mail-Funnel-Server API
Rails JSON API RESTful Server, that also handles Shopify Webhooks and a Rails Cron-Job Worker.

### App Store Config
Development - .env (Assuming you are running NGrok)
```
# Server - Shopify API URL's
APP_URL=http://5b5283bb.ngrok.io/api/install
REDIRECTION_URL=http://5b5283bb.ngrok.io/api/auth
```

## Server-Features
The purpose of this server is to serve the mail-funnel-client (soon available in app-store) with the following services: Shopify Webhooks, REST CRUD JSON Web-Services and a Ruby background-job worker.

### Shopify Webhooks
- Shopify Webhooks - Shopify-API is configured and authenticated and the hooks are ready in /app/api/api.rb

### REST JSON Web-Services
- REST Web-Service JSON API that serves CRUD operations for 
- Security: https://www.codeschool.com/blog/2014/02/03/token-based-authentication-rails/

### Background-Jobs Worker
- A background process (IE: Job / Worker)
- Worker runs every 5 minutes , iterating through each row in the Jobs table
- The Worker checks each Job's and evaluates if it should be executed based on this algorithm:

```
1. Evaluate the Job's "frequency" value and "frequency-value" value. 
   1.1 `Frequency:String` = execute_once (default), (currently disabled: execute_twice, execute_thrice)
   1.2 `Frequency-Value::Integer` (military-style / minutes are multiples of 5) = 0030, 1100, 1345, 2005
2 Check the `Executed:Boolean` param, check if job has been executed yet 
   2.1 (Disabled)'Executed_Count:Integer` param (record how many times it has been executed) 
```

### Workers
- **Job Host** - Worker: Iterates through client Jobs, and sends emails to everybody on list
- **Crono**: Time based worker - https://github.com/plashchynski/crono

### Mailers / Sendgrid Mailers
- **Sendgrid-ActionMailer** - https://github.com/eddiezane/sendgrid-actionmailer

## Development
- CI Server - https://github.com/travis-ci
- First download and install Ngrok (http://ngrok.com but we have a
in our apps/bin), and run it

### Developer Setup

```
./ngrok http 3001   # This starts ngrok
```
You will need to configure your .env first. The .env can be used with the `gem 'dotenv'`

```env
RAILS_ENV=Development
APP_NAME=mailfunnel-server
APP_KEY=##KEY########
APP_SECRET=##SECRET###
APP_URL=http://GENERATED-URL.ngrok.io/api/ # Or your servers URL
APP_SCOPE = "read_orders, read_products"
```

Then run the server on port 3001

```bash
rails s -p 3001
```


## Mail-Funnel REST Server


**Endpoints**

```
Rails JSON REST API
http://mailfunnel.bluehelmet.io

Shopify API Endpoint
http://mailfunnel.bluehelmet.io/api/
```

**API JSON Authentication** (Task)
	
- https://github.com/doorkeeper-gem/doorkeeper
- http://tutorials.pluralsight.com/ruby-ruby-on-rails/token-based-authentication-with-ruby-on-rails-5-api
- https://github.com/nsarno/knock


**API Docs:** 

- (Task) Setup Gelato - https://gelato.io/

## Production Server

**Heroku**

- Ruby on Rails application hosting.
- https://dashboard.heroku.com/

**Travis-CI** OR **Circle-CI**

**Reviewable.io**

- Merge Review Tool
- https://reviewable.io/reviews#-
**Review-Ninja Admin:** 

- https://app.review.ninja/

**Sentry.io**

- https://sentry.io/blue-helmet/mail-funnel-client/getting-started/ruby-rails/

**Dependency Security Analyzer** 

- https://www.deppbot.com/repos
- Github Webhook trigers an audit after every push

Commit message:

Added the Job Libraries and Sendgrid Libraries that will be reviewed tomorrow, and one will be implemented for the job-handler and the Sendgrid API (or a combination of ActionMailer)

README.md, after:

# Mail-Funnel-Server API
Rails JSON API RESTful Server, that also handles Shopify Webhooks and a Rails Cron-Job Worker.

## Server-Features
The purpose of this server is to serve the mail-funnel-client (soon available in app-store) with the following services: Shopify Webhooks, REST CRUD JSON Web-Services and a Ruby background-job worker.

### Shopify Webhooks
- Shopify Webhooks - Shopify-API is configured and authenticated and the hooks are ready in /app/api/api.rb

### REST JSON Web-Services
- REST Web-Service JSON API that serves CRUD operations for 
- Security: https://www.codeschool.com/blog/2014/02/03/token-based-authentication-rails/

### Sends emails using SendGrid
**Possible Rails Libraries:**  
- https://github.com/stephenb/sendgrid  
- https://github.com/PavelTyk/sendgrid-rails  
- https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/sendgrid  
- Config ActionMailer to use Sendgrid - https://sendgrid.com/docs/Integrate/Frameworks/rubyonrails.html  
- Sendgrid Ruby Lib - https://sendgrid.com/docs/Integrate/Code_Examples/v2_Mail/ruby.html

### Background-Jobs Worker
- A background process (IE: Job / Worker)
- Worker runs every 5 minutes , iterating through each row in the Jobs table
- The Worker checks each Job's and evaluates if it should be executed based on this algorithm:

```
1. Evaluate the Job's "frequency" value and "frequency-value" value. 
   1.1 `Frequency:String` = execute_once (default), (currently disabled: execute_twice, execute_thrice)
   1.2 `Frequency-Value::Integer` (military-style / minutes are multiples of 5) = 0030, 1100, 1345, 2005
2 Check the `Executed:Boolean` param, check if job has been executed yet 
   2.1 (Disabled)'Executed_Count:Integer` param (record how many times it has been executed) 
```
**Libraries for Background-Jobs (Being Evaluated):**  
- Delayed Job - In Shopify CEO Github account (Programmer) https://github.com/tobi/delayed_job  
- Delayed Job (**GOOD**) https://github.com/collectiveidea/delayed_job (Built From Shopify Source Code), it can send emails using its mailer - but we may need it to send emails using a 3rd party API Service instead  
- Sideqik + ActiveJob - https://github.com/mperham/sidekiq/wiki/Active+Job  
- Sucker Punch - A Ruby Async Concurrent processing library (Influenced by Sideqik and Girl_Friday) - Executes jobs in future (But, Because data stored in memory), its not recomended for a lot of mission-critical jobs because a process restart loses all future jobs 


### Workers
- **Job Host** - Worker: Iterates through client Jobs, and sends emails to everybody on list
- **Crono**: Time based worker - https://github.com/plashchynski/crono

### Mailers / Sendgrid Mailers
- **Sendgrid-ActionMailer** - https://github.com/eddiezane/sendgrid-actionmailer

## Development
- CI Server - https://github.com/travis-ci
- First download and install Ngrok (http://ngrok.com but we have a
in our apps/bin), and run it

### Developer Setup

```
./ngrok http 3001   # This starts ngrok
```
You will need to configure your .env first. The .env can be used with the `gem 'dotenv'`

```env
RAILS_ENV=Development
APP_NAME=mailfunnel-server
APP_KEY=##KEY########
APP_SECRET=##SECRET###
APP_URL=http://GENERATED-URL.ngrok.io/api/ # Or your servers URL
APP_SCOPE = "read_orders, read_products"
```

Then run the server on port 3001

```bash
rails s -p 3001
```


## Mail-Funnel REST Server


**Endpoints**

```
Rails JSON REST API
http://mailfunnel.bluehelmet.io

Shopify API Endpoint
http://mailfunnel.bluehelmet.io/api/
```

**API JSON Authentication** (Task)
	
- https://github.com/doorkeeper-gem/doorkeeper
- http://tutorials.pluralsight.com/ruby-ruby-on-rails/token-based-authentication-with-ruby-on-rails-5-api
- https://github.com/nsarno/knock


**API Docs:** 

- (Task) Setup Gelato - https://gelato.io/

## Production Server

**Heroku**

- Ruby on Rails application hosting.
- https://dashboard.heroku.com/

**Travis-CI** OR **Circle-CI**

**Reviewable.io**

- Merge Review Tool
- https://reviewable.io/reviews#-
**Review-Ninja Admin:** 

- https://app.review.ninja/

**Sentry.io**

- https://sentry.io/blue-helmet/mail-funnel-client/getting-started/ruby-rails/

**Dependency Security Analyzer** 

- https://www.deppbot.com/repos
- Github Webhook trigers an audit after every push
